Project Plan: Personal Brand & Tech Blog (Project "Codex")
Version: 1.0

Date: July 25, 2025

Authored By:

Project Lead / Developer: You

Chief Architect: Gemini

1.0 Executive Summary
This project outlines the development of a modern, high-performance, and scalable personal technology blog platform. It is engineered not merely as a content delivery tool, but as a comprehensive showcase of the project lead's technical capabilities, a perfect portfolio piece for career advancement, and the digital cornerstone of a future personal brand.

Core Functionality:

A public-facing interface for reading articles and submitting anonymous comments.

A secure, admin-only backend for creating, editing, and managing articles via Markdown.

Target Users:

Readers: Internet users interested in technology, programming, and the author's shared content.

Administrator: The blog owner (You).

2.0 Guiding Principles
The following core principles will govern all technical decisions:

Developer Experience First: Prioritize tools and patterns that maximize development efficiency and enjoyment. A happy developer builds superior products.

Clear Separation of Concerns: The frontend is exclusively responsible for user experience and presentation; the backend is exclusively responsible for business logic and data. Communication occurs via a standardized API contract, ensuring high decoupling.

End-to-End Type Safety: From the database schema to the API layer to the frontend UI, we will leverage TypeScript and Prisma to enforce full-stack type safety, maximally reducing runtime errors.

Deployment-Ready from Day One: All development work will be conducted in an environment that mirrors production as closely as possible, with automated CI/CD pipelines established from the outset.

Security by Design: Security measures, particularly for administrative access, are to be considered integral to the architectural design phase, not as an afterthought.

3.0 Technology Stack & Justification
Layer

Technology Selection

Justification

Frontend

Next.js (App Router)

The de-facto standard for the React ecosystem, offering hybrid SSG/SSR rendering capabilities for superior performance and SEO.

Backend

Nest.js

An enterprise-grade Node.js framework built on TypeScript. Its modularity and Dependency Injection design enable highly maintainable and scalable backend services.

Database ORM

Prisma

A next-generation ORM providing an unparalleled, type-safe database access experience. Integrates flawlessly with Nest.js and PostgreSQL.

Database

PostgreSQL

The most powerful open-source relational database, renowned for performance, extensibility, and robust community support. The preferred choice for modern applications.

Code Repository

Monorepo (w/ Nx or Turborepo)

Manages frontend and backend code within a single repository, facilitating code sharing (especially type definitions) and simplifying dependency management and build processes.

4.0 System Architecture
Database Schema (schema.prisma): [As defined in our previous communication, containing Post and Comment models and their relation. This model is considered final.]

API Contract: The backend will strictly adhere to the following RESTful API design.

// --- Public APIs ---
GET    /api/posts                  // Fetches a list of all published posts
GET    /api/posts/:slug            // Fetches a single post by its slug
GET    /api/posts/:postId/comments // Fetches all comments for a post
POST   /api/posts/:postId/comments // Creates a new comment for a post

// --- Admin Auth APIs ---
POST   /api/auth/login             // Administrator login

// --- Protected Admin APIs (Requires JWT) ---
GET    /api/admin/posts            // Fetches all posts (including drafts)
POST   /api/admin/posts            // Creates a new post
PUT    /api/admin/posts/:id        // Updates an existing post
DELETE /api/admin/posts/:id        // Deletes a post

5.0 DevOps Strategy
Environment Strategy:

Local: Utilize docker-compose to run a local, simulated PostgreSQL database. Frontend and backend are started via dev scripts.

Production: Deployed on public cloud infrastructure.

Version Control: Employ a simplified Git Flow.

main: The primary branch, always in a deployable state, mirroring the production environment.

develop: The main development branch. All new features are branched from here.

feat/...: Feature branches (e.g., feat/comments). Merged back into develop upon completion.

Containerization: Author a Dockerfile for the Nest.js backend application to ensure environmental consistency.

Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment (CI/CD):

Tool: GitHub Actions.

Workflow: Pushing to the main branch automatically triggers the CI/CD pipeline:

Run tests (Lint, Unit Tests).

Build the frontend application and the backend Docker image.

Deploy the frontend application to Vercel.

Push the backend Docker image to a registry (e.g., Docker Hub) and deploy to the cloud host.

Hosting:

Frontend (Next.js): Vercel. Provides seamless integration with Next.js, a global CDN, and a generous free tier.

Backend (Nest.js): Railway or Fly.io. These platforms offer excellent Docker support, a simple deployment experience, and free tiers.

Database (PostgreSQL): Neon or Supabase. Provide dedicated, managed cloud database services with robust free tiers.

6.0 Phased Execution Roadmap
The project is decomposed into manageable sprints, each with clear objectives and deliverables.

Phase 0: Foundation & Setup (Est. 0.5 Weeks)

Objective: Build the project skeleton and ensure the toolchain is operational.

Deliverables:

Initialized Monorepo using Nx or Turborepo.

ESLint, Prettier, and TypeScript configured.

Local Dockerized PostgreSQL instance runs successfully.

"Hello World" frontend and backend applications can start and communicate.

prisma.schema file created and the initial database migration is complete.

Phase 1: Core Content MVP (Est. 1 Week)

Objective: Implement the core "read-only" functionality of the blog.

Deliverables:

Backend: GET /posts and GET /posts/:slug endpoints are developed and tested.

Frontend: The Home page (post list) and Post Detail page are developed.

Data can be manually seeded into the database and is correctly displayed by the frontend.

Initial deployment to Vercel and Railway is completed, resulting in a publicly accessible, read-only blog.

Phase 2: Admin Panel & CMS (Est. 1.5 Weeks)

Objective: Implement secure content creation and management capabilities.

Deliverables:

Backend: The AuthModule is complete, providing a login endpoint and a JWT validation Guard.

Backend: All protected admin APIs (POST, PUT, DELETE) are developed.

Frontend: The /admin route is created, including a login page, post management list, and a Markdown-based new/edit page.

Milestone: The administrator can perform end-to-end login, publishing, and management of articles.

Phase 3: User Interaction (Est. 1 Week)

Objective: Implement the commenting feature.

Deliverables:

Backend: The CommentModule APIs are developed.

Frontend: An interactive comment section component (displaying comments, submitting new ones) is developed for the Post Detail page.

Basic anti-spam measures (e.g., backend rate-limiting) are in place.

Phase 4: Polish & Launch (Est. 1 Week)

Objective: Conduct a full review and optimization of the project for its official launch.

Deliverables:

Responsive Design QA: Ensure an excellent reading experience on mobile, tablet, and desktop.

Performance Optimization: Image lazy-loading, code-splitting, Lighthouse score improvements.

SEO Optimization: Appropriate <title> and <meta> tags are implemented for all pages.

A personal domain is purchased and configured.

1-3 initial articles are written and officially published.

7.0 Risk Assessment & Mitigation
Risk 1 (Technical): Underestimating the complexity of Nest.js or Prisma, leading to development delays.

Mitigation: Adhere strictly to official documentation. Build from the simplest modules outwards. Prioritize official issue trackers and Stack Overflow for problem-solving.

Risk 2 (Scope): Scope creep; the temptation to add "cool" but non-essential features (e.g., full-text search, likes) before core functionality is complete.

Mitigation: Strict adherence to the phased roadmap. All new ideas are to be logged in a "Future Features" backlog and considered only after v1.0 is successfully launched.

Risk 3 (Security): Flaws in the backend authentication logic leading to unauthorized access.

Mitigation: Allocate sufficient time during Phase 2 to rigorously test the AuthModule and AuthGuard. Use mature, battle-tested libraries (e.g., @nestjs/jwt) and do not "roll your own" cryptography.

8.0 Definition of Success
Functional Criteria:

Visitors can fluidly browse the post list and post detail pages.

Visitors can successfully submit comments and see them appear immediately.

The administrator can log in to the admin panel and perform all CRUD operations on posts.

Non-Functional Criteria:

Core pages achieve a Google Lighthouse performance score of >90.

The codebase has reasonable test coverage (Unit/Integration tests).

